<script>
  import {
    DateUpdated, 
    Small, 
  } from '$lib/components'
</script>

<Small>
  Last updated: <DateUpdated date="2025-04-18" small="true" />
</Small>

## Short

Scott is a straight-talking Svelte ambassador, community builder, and
tech enthusiast. As an engineering team lead and organizer of Svelte
Society London, he's passionate about making web tech practical,
accessible, and fun for everyone. Expect honest insights, a dash of
humour, and a love for all things SvelteKit.

## Medium

Meet Scott, a no-nonsense Svelte ambassador, team lead, and the go-to
for real-world web dev advice. He organizes Svelte Society London,
blogs what he learns, and creates videos that cut through the hype and
get straight to what works. Scott's all about community, making
complex tech simple, and sharing both wins and learning moments. If
it's SvelteKit, TypeScript, or Tailwind, he's probably using it (and
telling you why pnpm is the only way!).

## Long

Scott Spence is your friendly neighbourhood tech leader who believes
in keeping things real, practical, and a little bit cheeky. As an
engineering team lead, Svelte Society London co-founder, and Svelte
ambassador, Scott's mission is to help developers succeed without the
BS. He's a prolific blogger and content creator, known for making
tricky topics accessible and relatable (with the occasional meme or
keyboard reference thrown in).

Scott's technical toolkit is all about efficiency: SvelteKit,
TypeScript, Tailwind, daisyUI, and pnpm (never npm, don't ask). He
prefers real SQL over ORMs, Markdown for docs, and rapid iteration
over endless planning. When he's not leading teams or building
community tools like skykit.blue, you'll find him geeking out over
mechanical keyboards, drum & bass, or the latest SvelteKit updates.
Scott stands for authenticity, community, and helping others cut
through the noiseâ€”one honest blog post at a time.
