<script>
  import {
    DateDistance as DD, 
    DateUpdated, 
    Small, 
  } from '$lib/components'
</script>

<Small>
  Last updated: <DateUpdated date="2025-04-18" small="true" />
</Small>

## Short

Scott Spence is an Engineering Team Lead at XtendOps, specializing in
Svelte and SvelteKit. With <DD date="2018-03-18" /> of commercial web
development experience, Scott leads teams building scalable AI-driven
applications. As the founder of OES Technology and an experienced
Developer Advocate, he brings deep expertise in JavaScript, modern
frameworks, and technical leadership.

## Medium

Scott Spence is a seasoned Engineering Team Lead, currently overseeing
a sophisticated SvelteKit monorepo powering multiple customer-facing
AI products at XtendOps. With a career spanning

<DD date="2006-04-01" /> in technology and <DD date="2018-03-18" /> in
commercial web development, Scott excels in technical leadership,
architecture, and team mentoring. As the founder of OES Technology and
a former Developer Advocate, he is passionate about driving
innovation, maintaining high code quality, and sharing knowledge
through content and community engagement.

## Long

Scott Spence is an Engineering Team Lead with <DD date="2018-03-18" />
of commercial web development experience and <DD date="2006-04-01" />
of experience in the tech industry. At XtendOps, he leads development
teams in building and maintaining a large-scale SvelteKit monorepo for
AI-powered platforms, focusing on technical excellence, security, and
product innovation. Scott is the founder of OES Technology, delivering
scalable Svelte solutions for businesses, and previously worked as a
Developer Advocate, creating educational content and building
developer communities.

Earlier in his career, Scott spent over 12 years as a senior-level
Analyst Developer, specializing in Microsoft Office automation for
major financial organizations. He is recognized for his strong
leadership, mentoring, and commitment to best practices. Scott remains
actively engaged in the tech community, attending industry events,
contributing to open source, and continuously advancing his skills to
deliver value and foster growth within his teams and the wider
community.
