<script>
  import {
    DateDistance as DD, 
    DateUpdated, 
    Small, 
  } from '$lib/components'
  import PM from '../src/routes/lets-work-together/pricing-matrix.svelte'
  import WS from '../src/routes/lets-work-together/workshop.svelte'
  import VD from '../src/routes/lets-work-together/video.svelte'
  import BP from '../src/routes/lets-work-together/blog-post.svelte'
</script>

# What can an expert Svelte and SvelteKit Developer Advocate do for you?

<Small>
  Last updated: <DateUpdated date='2023-07-31' small='true' />
</Small>

In today's tech landscape, having a specialized expert on your team
can be a game-changer. As an experienced JavaScript Developer and
Developer Advocate, I bring a unique blend of technical and
communication skills, and a deep understanding of Svelte and
SvelteKit.

My expertise lies not only in developing robust, high-performance
applications but also in empowering other developers through
education, advocacy, and guidance. I'm proficient in identifying and
solving complex problems, simplifying technical concepts, and
translating them into easy-to-understand terms.

Furthermore, as an advocate, I serve as a bridge between your team and
the broader Svelte community, helping you keep up with the latest
trends, best practices, and technological advancements. This proactive
approach can facilitate your product's adoption, visibility, and
overall success.

Whether it's delivering top-tier workshops, leading and consulting on
projects, or advocating for your product, my skillset can drive
tangible results for your team and business.

## Workshops & speaking engagements

_**Empowering developers through education**_

With years of experience delivering engaging and informative talks at
events like Svelte Society London, CityJS, and Connect.Tech Atlanta, I
have honed my skills in translating complex technical concepts into
actionable learning experiences. My workshops aim to empower
developers, providing them with the tools and knowledge to confidently
navigate and utilise Svelte and SvelteKit.

I provide workshops that cater to a variety of experience levels,
ranging from an introduction to Svelte and SvelteKit for beginners, to
deep dives into advanced topics for more experienced developers.
Participants will walk away with a comprehensive understanding of
these powerful tools, and the ability to implement them effectively in
their own projects.

## Consulting & project delivery

_**Bringing expert knowledge and leadership to your team**_

In addition to offering standalone workshops, I also provide
longer-term consulting services. These can be in the form of ongoing
support for your team's projects, or I can step in as a team lead to
ensure the successful delivery of high-quality SvelteKit applications.

My approach is collaborative and adaptive, with a focus on creating a
positive and productive working environment. I believe in the
importance of communication and transparency in ensuring a projectâ€™s
success, and work closely with team members to foster these values.

Whether your team is looking to expand its knowledge of Svelte and
SvelteKit, or requires expert guidance on a major project, my wealth
of experience and deep understanding of these tools can be a valuable
asset.

Common scenarios where I deliver successful projects:

- You are looking for a developer advocate to help increase the
  visibility and adoption of your product.
- You require assistance with workshops, tutorials, demos, educational
  videos, and blog posts for your platform.
- You're looking to launch an eCommerce project using Svelte, React or
  Gatsby and need a professional to code it.
- You'd like to leverage the power of a headless CMS platform.
- You're looking for an experienced developer to create sample
  applications, prototypes, and code samples showcasing the power and
  flexibility of Svelte and SvelteKit with your product.

If one of these situations describes your needs, you're in the right
place. You can hire me to help today.

## How much?

_**Transparent pricing for flexible services**_

I offer a unique and interactive pricing tool that covers the breadth
of services I provide. From one-off workshops to detailed video
tutorials, and comprehensive blog posts, you can interact with the
tool to align the services with your budget and project requirements.

Tailor your selection by choosing the services that best cater to your
needs. Whether you're seeking a single training workshop, detailed
video tutorials, comprehensive blog posts, ongoing project
development, or complete project leadership, you have the flexibility
to pick and choose what works best for you.

**Just want a rate?**

<PM />

**Workshops**

<WS />

**Video**

<VD />

**Blog post**

<BP />

## Why hire me?

With <DD date='2018-03-14' /> years of commercial experience in
development and <DD date='2016-06-15' /> of experience using
JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, I bring a strong set of skills and a
passion for technology to the table.

## My background

I have a previous experience of 10+ years as a senior-level Analyst
Developer specialising in Microsoft Office automation for large
financial organisations.

Based in the UK, I have been a part of several successful projects for
start-ups, medium to large businesses, and international brands.

## My skills

I develop solutions using modern tooling and processes, using
JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, and the frameworks like Svelte and React.

I'm a good communicator, reliable, autonomous, pragmatic and happy to
project manage myself and/or a wider team.

I want to partner with you on your project for the long term. From
planning, through to development, go live and further improvements.

Ready to start a project together?

[Get in touch] to tell me more.

<!-- Links -->

[get in touch]: /contact
