---
date: 2020-06-22
title: My Top Ten Visual Studio Code Extensions 2020
tags: ['vscode', 'extension']
is_private: false
---

My list of VS Code extensions I use in my daily development workflow.

I'll detail the package name to search for in the VS Code extensions
tab.

In no particular order...

## Path Intellisense

Really useful for getting file names in code, I use it all the time
for images in Markdown files.

Search for `christian-kohler.path-intellisense` in the VS Code
extensions tab.

## GitLens

Great Git integration that let's you quickly view a files git history
in the editor.

<!-- cSpell:ignore eamodio,kohler -->

Search for `eamodio.gitlens` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Prettier

The invisible formatting [deity] that rewards us for not writing
incorrect code by formatting with ease and grace.

Be sure not to anger Prettier or your code will remain unbearable to
read.

Search for `esbenp.prettier-vscode` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Auto Close Tag / Auto Rename Tag

Two extensions, that should be one that do a great job of adding
closing tags for your html and jsx.

Search for `formulahendry.auto-close-tag` and
`formulahendry.auto-rename-tag` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## vscode-styled-components

This is really handy as I use styled components a _lot_ and it gives
syntax highlighting and IntelliSense for styled-components.

<!-- cSpell:ignore jpoissonnier,formulahendry -->

Search for `jpoissonnier.vscode-styled-components` in the VS Code
extensions tab.

## Code Spell Checker

This! Without this my Markdown would be very painful to read, there
are other spell check extensions out there but I have found this one
by far the most straightforward to set up and get going with.

To correct a spelling you'll get the squiggly line warning, put the
cursor on the word and use Ctrl+. to get the correction suggestions.

Search for `streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker` in the VS Code
extensions tab.

## MDX

Another syntax highlighting extension this time for MDX with bracket
matching for MDX (JSX in Markdown).

<!-- cSpell:ignore silvenon -->

Search for `silvenon.mdx` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Code Time

Code Time is a great way for you to visualise time spent on projects
with a detailed summaries of projects and time spent on each.

<!-- cSpell:ignore swdc,softwaredotcom -->

Search for `softwaredotcom.swdc-vscode` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## WakaTime

Much the same as Code Time with a premium tier that offers unlimited
dashboard history and the ability to export your coding activity.

Search for `WakaTime.vscode-wakatime` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Color Highlight

This will display the colour of hex codes in you code. nice to have.

<!-- cSpell:ignore naumovs -->

Search for `naumovs.color-highlight` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Night Owl

A beautiful, accessible, understated theme for VS Code.

<!-- cSpell:ignore sdras -->

Search for `sdras.night-owl` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Honourable Mentions

## Rouge Theme

Another really nice fully featured theme with italics!

Search for `josef.rouge-theme` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## DotENV

Another syntax highlighting extension, this time for `.env` files.

Search for `mikestead.dotenv` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Material Icon Theme

A massive fully featured icon set for VS Code, still the only one I
have found that shows the Gatsby config and Vercel now.json files with
their own icon.

<!-- cSpell:ignore PKief,mikestead -->

Search for `PKief.material-icon-theme` in the VS Code extensions tab.

## Visual Studio IntelliCode

<!-- cSpell:ignore intelli -->

IntelliSense code completion for some parts of my workflow, if I used
TypeScript more this would probably be a really useful extension.

<!-- cSpell:ignore expt,vscodeintellicode -->

Search for `VisualStudioExptTeam.vscodeintellicode` in the VS Code
extensions tab.

<!-- Links -->

[deity]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deity
