---
date: 2025-05-25
title: Svelte Summit 2025
tags: ['svelte', 'sveltekit', 'svelte-summit']
is_private: false
---

<script>
  import { YouTube } from 'sveltekit-embed'
</script>

<!-- cspell:ignore Ilja ermeen Dominik Macrodata Kunz betteroffline Jeppe Stroybook Piba VITECONF Pulw -->

Ok, off of the back of an absolutely banger of a post from Ilja, I'm
now compelled to write about my own experience at Svelte Summit. I
initially drafted this post on the 13th, it's now the 25th (this post
has been sat in my drafts all this time!), so as those memories are
fading fast I should try get down as much as I can! These are my notes
and experiences, this isn't a rundown of the talks! Although, I will
note some of the most impactful and entertaining ones!

I'm going to have to come back to this, add more images etc, for now,
I don't want to stash this in Git as that where all good unfinished
stuff goes to die for me! ðŸ˜… Instead, I'm going to add what I can now!
If this seems disjointed and muddled, that's because it is, as I've
written it over three weeks now ðŸ¥²

## Self funded

Attending the 2022 Svelte Summit was an absolute joy! As soon as the
next in person Svelte Summit was announced for 2025 I bought an early
bird ticket, booked my flights and hotel then marked the time off in
my calendar! It didn't even occur to me that I should submit a talk!
ðŸ˜‚ This wasn't something I was going to miss!

As the heading suggests I also want to mention that although there are
sponsors for Svelte Summit I know that conferences are not cheap to
make happen! I have also seen discourse around the cost of watching
the talks, _really_ passive aggressive comments around Svelte being
OSS so why pay to watch the talks etc. **HAVE YOU SEEN THE PRICE OF A
VITECONF TICKET?**

To these people, stop bitching about it! The conf was run at a loss!
The videos are a way to claw back some of this! If you want to support
further Svelte Summits, cough up the money to watch the videos, that
will help fund the next one! There are certain local Svelte meetup's
where you will be able to watch some of the talks _OR_ wait for them
to be released in due course.

## The talks

There's very little I missed from the talks, all top quality talks!
Most notable, for me, were...

Dominik G's talk on testing patterns, he gave an overview of using
Vitest workspaces to split your client and server tests! I'm using
these patterns now and they're working very well!

Macrodata Refinement with Svelte with Ken Kunz (talk in the theme of
severance) was a masterclass in using Svelte to create the
[UI seen in severance](https://mdr.kenthropic.com). You didn't even
know what severance (the TV show) was! Thoroughly entertaining!

Bert's talk! If you were not at the Svelte 2022 summit, you were not
prepared for the energy Bert brings to his talks! Energy, BUT with a
real story behind it!

## The venue

The aesthetics of the venue where great! Not some sterile white
partition walled space where you feel like your back in the office
waiting to hear about Q2 performance, but an actual entertainment
space in the heart of Barcelona!

People do like to shit on things they're not taking part in! There
were comments online about the appearance of the venue. To these
people I invite them to help organise ANY event where they are on a
tight budget and have to meet the needs of many individuals!

Kev and the rest of the team did an absolutely fantastic job! Also one
thing to note is that Kev was an image of serenity compared to the
last 2022 event where he was mostly bright red running around like a
madman who looked in desperate need of a hug! ðŸ˜‚

## Svelte has a marketing problem

So, Svelte is used in _many_ places, not where there's data viz needed
like with the New Your Times, The FT, Bloomberg, Der Spiegel but other
companies that have decided to use Svelte for their websites like
Ashley Furniture (2nd largest furniture website in the world) and
Ikea, which I guess is the largest?? Also Stack Overflow and Apple
music!

Why is there not more visibility about Svelte, I know there's the
survey information (totally blanking on the name of it) and there are
serious companies doing serious things with Svelte.

Is it that we're not as shouty about it? Is it because we actively
avoid hype?

I think there were at least two discussions Kevin had relating to the
marketing of Svelte, I brought it and and when I mentioned it to him
he also mentioned that he literally just had a conversation with
someone else on the same subject, he immediately went off to have a
conversation about it (with someone else??). I'm now in a Discord
channel discussing how we improve this ðŸ˜…

What I will say is this. You use Svelte to solve a problem? Tell
others about it, share it online so other can understand your problem,
blog it, share it on social media, etc! I know these things take time
out of your day, but if that Bluesky post or your blog post helps just
one person, do you think that's worth the effort? I do! That's why
I've been adding random shit to this site since I started web dev!

## The business case for Svelte

So, just pondering the name drops I mentioned for companies that use
Svelte, the thing is, the decision makers for the technologies used,
probably don't care about Svelte, they are concerned with outcomes!

A talk given by Chris Ellis (who I now work with!) coming up to three
years ago now is still something I reference when speaking with others
about "selling" Svelte to management/stakeholders/business owners.

<YouTube youTubeId='ua6gE2zPulw' skipTo={{ h: 0, m: 52, s: 13 }} />

The upshot? Essentially it's "faster outcomes" businesses don't really
care what stack you use, they care about getting features to market.

Anyways! This tangent is done with!

## These are my people

Such a diverse group of people from so many places around the world!
Any discussion I had I would discover something new and intriguing!
Andy the guy who works at the [UN](https://www.un.org/en)! Mentioned
he loved the feel of Svelte but still works very much in PHP! Looking
forward to seeing the UN adopting Svelte!

Sonny and AK from Ashley, where I found out they use my ironically
badly named SEO head component
[Svead](https://github.com/spences10/svead) ðŸ¤¯

Ermeen and Ilja who were both asking questions about starting their
local event for Svelte where I was glad to share some of the knowledge
I've picked up over the years! (like I'm some sort of Svelte events
expert ðŸ˜‚ I'm not, but, was happy to share)

Jeppe Reinhold, who I'd never met in person and was totally blown away
by his work on Stroybook with Svelte.

Reconnecting with friends I had made at the last in person summit!
Making new friends and hanging out after the after party is always the
best part of these events!

It felt very much like coming home, I could strike up a conversation
with anyone and they'd be friendly and open to chat! The venue added
very much to the vibe!

The intentionally long breaks between sessions allowed for a lot of
chatting and catching up!

## The day 1 after party, after party

After the after party on the first night, there were roughly 80 of us
looking for somewhere to get some food and drinks. Chaos ensued! A
line of people snaking through the streets of barcelona at around
22:00 in the evening ðŸ˜…

People were following Bert like he's some pied piper of Svelte devs!
ðŸ¤£

We split into two groups not from intention, just waiting around for
others to cross roads etc! Shout out to Morgan for some quick thinking
and frantic searching to find a place that would accommodate us!
Turned out to be a group of around 20 people in one place! We stayed
for a drink then went on to find the other group!

I met with Ermeen on my way back to where I thought the other group
were, (turns out, that the directions I was following were back to my
hotel which I didn't even clock until the morning ðŸ˜…) Ermeen was sat
outside the bar and pointed to inside where the rest of the gang were!

We were brought back together!

![svelte-summit-2025-the-after-party-after-party](https://res.cloudinary.com/defkmsrpw/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/v1748168503/scottspence.com/svelte-summit-2025-the-after-party-after-party.jpg)

## The day 2 after party, after party

There was cheesecake Sonny doing his best to convince the staff at
Piba to let 20 plus more people in!

There were another group at somewhere else I can't remember!

## The Scott knot

I feel I have to bring this up! I tie a shoelace that will not come
undone easily! It's my patented "Scott knot" as referred to my
nephews! I was taught this specific type of knot over 20 years ago by
a shoe shine! ðŸ˜…

~~I'm quite embarrassed to admit but I can't remember who's shoes I
tied! I do remember recounting the story "of the knot" and instructing
the shoes wearer on how to tie the knot!~~

~~I need to know 1. who's shoes I tied 2. if they recommend the "Scott
knot" to others. 3. do they remember how to tie the knot?~~

It was Antony (My Svelte London co founder), I tied Antony's shoelaces
for him! I thought this story was going to be more interesting than it
actually was ðŸ˜‚ I thought I forgot a key bonding moment! Turns out
it's the guy I see (almost) monthly for Svelte London events!

## AIAIo, no!

Another tangent!

Off of the back of a very lengthy section in Ilja's post I am now
going to add my own lengthy take! If you meet me in person, and we
speak about AI, (let's face it, it's _very_ hard _not_ to talk about
it these days!), you will probably get the impression that I'm a bit
of a sceptic, that I loathe using it. The fact of the matter is (for
now) there's no escaping it! I do wholeheartedly agree with
[Ilja's comments](https://fubits.dev/notes/2025-05-10-svelte-summit-2025-spring-notes#no-ai--llm-talks-at-the-svelte-summit-a-lengthy-take)
about it, currently companies are burning through VC money like
there's no tomorrow (absolutely to the detriment of tomorrow too!). I
know these pricing models are unsustainable, it costs way more to make
a query than what is being charged!

I'm not going to get into this discussion here though, BUT! THERE ARE
NOT ENOUGH PEOPLE WRITING ABOUT THIS WHICH IS MIND BOGGLING TO ME!
Please check out [betteroffline.com](https://www.betteroffline.com)
for more information, there's a podcast and newsletter that I highly
recommend!

## Closing

So, this is more of a vague recollection from my point of view of what
happened over those two days! I thoroughly enjoyed it all and was very
sad to leave!

Can't wait for the next in person Svelte Summit! I'm sure it will be
just as enjoyable as this one was! ðŸŽ‰
