---
date: 2024-11-20
title: Take Back the Web! A Practical Guide to Digital Independence
tags: ['notes', 'privacy', 'security']
is_private: false
---

Ok, I don't usually do a post like this, this site is usually around
how to work with a technology or to get something done with it.

This time around it's more of a starter pack on where to start if you
want to take back some control over your online experience and
privacy.

I'm no privacy expert, these are some steps I have taken to reduce the
amount of data I give to big tech companies.

First though, preamble!

## The problem

"Look at these suckers paying for email!" Yeah, I used to think like
that too. When you're using a "free" service, it feels like you're
gaming the system – getting something for nothing while others pay for
premium features. But here's the rub: these services aren't free.
You're paying in a different currency – your personal data and your
attention.

Chrome's recent move to manifest v3 meaning ad blockers will cease to
be as effective is the perfect example of how "free" services (like
YouTube) eventually degrade so much that you end up paying for premium
features.

Google search becoming less effective over time so you use it more and
see more and more sponsored links.

## "But I have nothing to hide"

Whenever privacy comes up in conversation, someone inevitably says, "I
have nothing to hide." But this misses the point entirely. Privacy
isn't about hiding dark secrets – it's about maintaining control over
your digital footprint.

Another common response is "they know everything about me already."
People don't like change, I get it, but the "this is how I've always
done it, why should I change?" is what big tech companies depend on.

## Practical steps to digital independence

Here's a few services I have been using with a high level overview of
why I chose them. There's other alternatives, some I mention, some I'm
sure you'll find out for yourself.

## Email: Fastmail

After using Gmail for years, I made the switch to Fastmail in 2021.
The killer feature? (for me) Masked emails. Integrated with 1Password,
I can create a unique email address for every service I sign up for.
When a service gets compromised or starts spamming, I can disable or
delete that specific address without affecting my main email.

I did have a short stint with ProtonMail and Zoho mail, more on that
in
[Why Fastmail over Proton Mail](https://scottspence.com/posts/why-fastmail-over-proton-mail)
if you're interested.

If you're interested in Fastmail, I have
[an affiliate link](https://join.fastmail.com/9283c1fd), you can use
to get a 10% discount on your first year and I get a $10 credit.

## Analytics: Fathom

Google analytics, free yay! Well, what do you think they are doing
with all that data they're slurping up from your site's users?

As a developer, I need analytics to understand how people use my
websites. But that doesn't mean I (or Google) need to track them
across the web. Fathom Analytics provides the insights I need while
respecting user privacy. No cookie banners required, no personal data
collected. This site uses Fathom, you can check out the
[privacy](https://scottspence.com/privacy-policy) and
[cookie](https://scottspence.com/cookie-policy) policies to see where
you stand.

I have [an affiliate link](https://usefathom.com/ref/HG492L) for
Fathom as well, you can use to get a $10 credit on your first month.
There's a 25% commission kickback in it for me too.

## Search: Kagi

I switched to Kagi because, it gives me better search results than
Google. While DuckDuckGo is a good free privacy-focused alternative, I
personally find Kagi's results more relevant for my needs. Since Kagi
is not driven by an ad-based business model, the results feel more
neutral - you get what matches your search, not what someone paid to
rank for. For me, that's worth paying for.

## VPN: Mullvad

I was previously using Mozilla VPN, but switched to Mullvad because of
it's privacy focus, (not that Mozilla wasn't) the Mullvad VPN is
completely anonymous in how you set up and use the service, no email
or payment details on file, just a ID number.

There's also a Firefox based Mullvad browser that integrates with
their VPN service with a high focus on privacy.

## Making informed choices

So these are some of the choices I have made over the years, you do
you though. Do your own research and make your own choices that make
sense for you. How do you know which services to trust though?

The affiliate links are an incentive for me of course, but I wouldn't
be recommending them if I didn't use them and think they were worth
sharing.

## The rise of independent tech journalism

There's been an increase in independent journalist like
[404 media](https://www.404media.co/), and podcasts like
[Better Offline](https://pca.st/j9gj91ao) and
[Grumpy Old Geeks](https://pca.st/e3rk) that don't idolise these
companies and instead cut through that because the're not afraid of
losing access to a CEO for an interview if they ask the hard
questions.

This kind of independent journalism doesn't just help us stay
informed - it helps us make better choices about the tools and
services we use. When you understand how your data is being used (or
misused), those paid privacy-focused alternatives start looking less
like an expense and more like an investment, right?

## Curate your information

But what can I do? The [indie web](https://indieweb.org/) is a great
example of owning your content. It's not a throwback to the "old
internet" – it's the future. As AI-generated content floods the
mainstream web, human-created content on independent platforms becomes
more and more valuable.

RSS feeds might seem old-school, but they offer the ability to curate
your own information diet. Instead of letting algorithms decide what
you should see, you choose your sources and consume content on your
own terms.

## Social doesn't have to be algorithmically driven

Platforms like [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org) and
[Bluesky](https://bsky.social) are not algorithmically driven. Posts
are chronologically ordered, so you can follow the people you want to
see and with Bluesky you can curate your own feed.

New to Bluesky? Well, there's starter packs, find your community and
bulk follow them with a click.

Bluesky is built on an open protocol, so you can use any client you
want. Hack on it and make your own client if you like! I made
[skykit](https://skykit.blue) over a weekend, Bluesky in my opinion
the spiritual home for developers to congregate online, share cool
ideas and meet like minded individuals.

## A call to action

Change is hard. Most people use the internet with specific objectives
in mind, and completely changing their digital habits feels daunting.
But you don't have to do everything at once. Start small:

1. Pick one service to replace with a privacy-respecting alternative
2. Set up an RSS reader and subscribe to some independent blogs
3. Question whether "free" services are really serving your needs

Remember: _**"if you're not paying for the product, you are the
product."**_

[![if you're not paying for the product you are the product](https://res.cloudinary.com/defkmsrpw/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/v1732134525/scottspence.com/if-youre-not-paying-for-the-product-you-are-the-product.png)](https://twitter.com/timoreilly/status/22823381903)

But the good news is that there are increasingly more options for
those willing to pay for services that respect their privacy.

The web we want still exists – we just have to be willing to support
it and help build it.
